---
layout: post
title:  "Forms in React"
date:   2018-04-30 13:00:00 +0700
categories: [react]
---

Please see [React - Forms](https://reactjs.org/docs/forms.html) for up to date examples.

---

#### Exercise 1

Continuing from last week's Car List exercise, create a form that will allow users to add new items to the car list.

- Form must include all properties of car items specified. Use data types that fit the data.

  - brand
  
  - make
  
  - year
  
  - image url
  
  - price
  
  - new/old
  
- When a new item is added, it should be displayed at the end of the full car list.

---

#### Exercise 2:

- Create a "LoginView" component, and render it under <App />.

- "LoginView" should have an initialState for empty "username" and "password".

- Render an input for your username, and one for your password, nested under a form.

- Also add submit button to the form.

- Use your inputs as controlled inputs, meaning that the source of truth for their value is
in the component state.

- onSubmit, use the API below to login.

- Display a loading spinner while the login response is pending.

- If the login credentials are wrong, display an invalid credentials message.

- If the login credentials are correct, display a Welcome message instead.


---

##### Mock Login API

---

{% highlight bash %}
POST https://damp-fortress-54104.herokuapp.com/login
{% endhighlight %}

<table class="table--bordered">
  <caption>Request Body</caption>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>key</th>
      <th>type</th>
      <th>description</th>
      <th>test credentials</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>username</td>
      <td>string</td>
      <td>username of the user</td>
      <td>test</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>password</td>
      <td>string</td>
      <td>password of the user</td>
      <td>password</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

<table class="table--bordered">
  <caption>Response Body</caption>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>key</th>
      <th>type</th>
      <th>description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>token</td>
      <td>string</td>
      <td>JWT token for the user.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

---
